---
title: "can i have your data?"
layout: post
category: projects
---

even if you dont let me have your cookies, you don’t really have a choice, at least not outside of eu thanks to the gdpr. say hello to “canvas fingerprinting.” a means of tracking your activity using just the elements of html pages, what every webpage is built out of. data from (link) this study done estimates that roughly 5.5% of the ~100k sites their webcrawler explored had a fingerprinting script running on them.

check this box to let me use your canvas. check this box to let me keep your hash.
as soon as you click the first box, the script will immediately run and display all the data the script gets from you, as well as some nice data viz stuff. the latter is just so i can keep some stats on who made it this far in my website and maybe do a later viz. thanks, explorer :salute:
(insert data viz, this one might take me a while gimme a few weeks, other projects in the fodder)

how does this work?

i have a script that inserts the sentence “cwm fjordbank glyphs vext quiz” (this is english!) right around here: (image pointing to it). it then exploits minute differences in how text is rendered across different devices, and outputs a hash that encodes info like your web browser, edition, gpu, and other stuff useful to businesses that might have any care about the kinds of agents that visit their site.

can i disable this? well you know how only in the past few years, a gazillion popups show on websites asking for cookie permission? cookies have been a thing for decades before this, there just werent any laws regarding it so obviously pretty much every site ever used them. then the law was put in place and so magically all of a sudden every webpage had its permission request up and running to abide the new laws more or less immediately, as its something they were already doing and hope to continue doing. 
browser fingerprinting is kinda in this pre-law state rn. 
eu is only safe cuz their data protection laws are very strong and are intentionally worded as technologically neutral (as of 2018), to stay relevant and cover all further technologies developed. for everyone outside the eu, site owners have no obligation to request permission. it happens in a fraction of a second and is already completed by the time your page is loaded. even tor can’t tell between legitimate canvas usage and fingerprinting, resulting in many false alarms if you do try to use its existing preventative means. and when you do block canvas scripts not enabling the whole thing to go through, that just flags you as someone who blocks scripts lol thats even more telling of the user.
